---
title: "KiwiSAT Information Update: May 2022"
description: >-
  Projects: Battery Replacement and Solar Cell Mounting
date: 2022-05-01
author: Douglas Birt ZL1BFS
tags:
  - post
---

Before we can actually look at the theoretical and costing factors of launching
KiwiSAT, we have to either get it flight-ready with our existing  hardware and within
our existing budget, or do some (possibly expensive) upgrading of some hardware items.

The first is the **batteries**.  The existing set has been installed in KiwiSAT for 10 years.
They are performing OK, but there is doubt that they would last another 10 years. We
do have another (new) set that we want to install, but that means completely
dismantling everything in the space frame, cleaning it, and re-assembling it.  It will
be a very intricate, time-consuming,  and challenging exercise.

The second is our **solar cells**.  KiwiSAT has been operational for the last ten years
using a terrestrial 230v power supply - the solar cells have been purchased, but
they need to be mounted on their space panels, ready for bolting into place on the
mounting holes already drilled into KiwiSAT’s frame.  Mounting, gluing, and
attaching the panels to the mounting frames is a very delicate and precision exercise.
Space, in full sunlight in a weightless environment, at a speed of tens of thousands
of kilometres per hour, will not be very forgiving on shoddy construction practices.

The core group members have been asked to commit to providing
two teams to undertake these two hardware projects.  Brief Project Specs have
been provided to  assist Core Members in assessing their involvement,
should they offer to do it.

It is preferable that these teams be located in the Auckland area - but other
offers will be considered.

_Douglas_  
_ZL1BFS_  
_Launch Coordinator_  
